Amethyst is one of the most precious and valuable stones belonging to the quartz group of minerals, with exception to rare blue-green gem silica. 
It is recognized as the official birthstone for the month of February.
Amethyst belongs to the macro-crystalline branch of quartz and owes its violet/purple color to iron and aluminium impurities. 
Without such coloring agents, amethyst would simply be transparent, ordinary colorless quartz. 
Like other varieties of macro-crystalline quartz, amethyst has transparent to translucent clarity and a vitreous luster. 
Cryptocrystalline varieties of quartz almost always occur with translucent to opaque clarity.
Amethyst, the gemstone believed by ancient Greeks and Romans to ward off the intoxicating powers of Bacchus, also was said to keep the wearer clear-headed and quick-witted. 
Throughout history, the gemstone has been associated with many myths, legends, religions, and numerous cultures.
English regalia were even decorated with amethysts during the Middle Ages to symbolise royalty. Amethyst jewelry has been found and dated as early as 2000 BC.
The above content is provided by Stainless Steel Jewelry Manufacturer - Shenzhen YIBI Jewelry. 
YIBI Jewelry is a Reputable & Reliable Stainless Steel Jewelry Manufacturer for International Brands. 
We are the Expert in OEM & ODM Services with our own Manufacturing Factory.
Amethyst gemstone is also known as the “stone of spirit”. 
Here are some uses of Amethyst Gemstone:
1. In China the amethyst gems find its use in curing of stomach pain and back pain
2. It is a gemstone that helps in overcoming inferiority complex.
3. Improves Blood Circulation
4. Balancing th crown chakra
5. Support healthy cell growth and regeneration.
6. As a luck and prosperity crystal, Amethyst is good for reducing the tendency to overspend, gambling addictions or unwise investments.
Amethyst healing properties are especially useful in regard to work-related stress because the stone is also associated with abundance; 
therefore relieving stress while emanating prosperity.
The amethyst properties which facilitate intuition and communication can also be applied to increased work effectiveness.
