The two fundamental limits of bandwidth in communications are dispersion and loss, both of which are in per-length limits. 
Dispersion is what it is called when the signal spreads out either temporally or spatially-that is, send in a pulse and that pulse spreads out.  
Temporal dispersion happens when different frequencies travel at different speeds, and spatial dispersion happens when there are multiple paths by which the signal can travel the same distance. 
The reason loss limits bandwidth is because of thermal noise, which noise is proportional to bandwidth greater bandwidth = higher noise level = have to have higher power signal to be detectable. 
Dispersion happens in 3 ways: Waveguide dispersion When an electromagnetic wave is confined in a structure, the fields will structure themselves into regular patterns called "modes," which are inner solutions to Maxwell's equations.  
The modes can correspond to angles at which the electromagnetic wave travels in the waveguide (optical fiber or electrical cable).  
For a TEM mode (transverse electromagnetic) such as that found in a copper cable or coaxial cable, the angle is the same no matter what frequency you operate at, but for higher modes (such as that in a microwave waveguide or optical fiber) the angle will change with frequency.  
The angle at which the wave moves through the waveguide will determine its speed, so if one frequency component of the signal moves at one speed but another frequency component moves at another speed then the signal will spread out as it moves. 
Since copper cable sends a signal via transverse electromagnetic waves, it is not subject to waveguide dispersion, but signals over optical fibers are subject to it. 
Chromatic dispersion This has to do with the time-response of electric and magnetic polarization in materials.  
A material polarizing means basically that the electrons and the nucleus of the constituent atoms stretch apart slightly, or in an ionic crystal the anions and the cations pull apart slightly.  
This does not happen instantaneously, but rather can be described similar to the way a spring stretches.  
When you release the spring it will oscillate a little.  
The time response of the "electromagnetic spring" means it will polarize more at some resonant frequencies and less at other frequencies.  
This also translates into an electromagnetic wave travelling more quickly through the material at some frequencies than others.  
Unless you're shooting a signal through air or vacuum, all signals are subject to chromatic dispersion. 
Older optical fibers were designed to work with 1330nm light, since that wavelength minimizes chromatic dispersion.  
However, newer fiber uses 1550nm light since attenuation is lower, and they utilize waveguide dispersion to counteract the effects of chromatic dispersion. 
(Note that standard fiber has zero dispersion near 1300nm, but dispersion-shifted fiber has it at zero near 1500nm.  
Dispersion shifting is done by tailoring waveguide dispersion to counteract chromatic dispersion). 
Intermodal dispersion Going back to the existence of modes, at a given frequency there may be multiple modes available for a wave to travel in.  
This is a function of the geometry of the waveguide.  
Single-mode fibers and microwave waveguides are designed to be large enough to support a single mode at the operating frequency, but too small to support more modes.  
Since each mode travels at a different speed, this will cause the wave to spread out.  
This is independent of the range of frequencies present in the signal. 
Single mode fibers and microwave waveguides are designed to be too small to support additional modes, but aligning them with sources and detectors becomes difficult.  
That is why home networks and short-range fiber networks use multi-mode fiber, which utilizes a larger core and supports many (usually hundreds) op... (more)Loading...