Which machine learning algorithms effectively combine supervised and unsupervised learning?
What ML algorithms beyond Restricted Boltzmann Machines and similar deep learning effectively combine learning from both labeled and unlabeled data
It is very common to do data-driven transformation of the data into a higher level representation that is better suited for training a supervised learning model. 
The most common transformations are centering, scaling and PCA: 
removing the linear correlations to normalize the input of you neural network, radial basis kernel SVM or linear classifier can (sometimes greatly) improve the generalization ability (along with some dimensionality reduction for computational efficiency). 
For instance eigenface-based image recognition is just an unsupervised whitening PCA + a supervised gaussian kernel SVM: http://scikit-learn.org/stable/a... 
Off-course this example is far from being state of the art but still demonstrate the power of SVD in practice (see also Why is SVD considered a highlight of linear algebra?) 
Another very interesting recent approach that can be seen as an alternative to the unsupervised pre-training of RBM and autoencoders when working on 2D images or 3D video input is the convolutional triangle kmeans by A. Coates et al:   http://ai.stanford.edu/%7Eang/pa... 
You can also consider the dictionary learning / sparse coding combo as an other very promising way to do unsupervised feature extraction that will likely give you interesting features for supervised learning, e.g see:   http://arxiv.org/abs/1009.5358 
I agree with Peter Norvig when he suggests that machine learners should focus on tapping into the huge (infinite?) amount of unlabeled data. 
Geoff Hinton made the same intuitive remark in his last google tech talk by doing a bandwith comparisons between the generative abstract entity to be modeled. 
the data we get from by cheaply observing those entities evolving in their environment and finally the high level human label we expensively stick on those observations.